when i talk about problems that involve
a fair degree of abstract reasoning you
may notice
that i like to start the video with a
very palpable
very pragmatic real world example
you are living in the united states
canada or australia
have you ever asked yourself the
question of why
when the government has made its
attempts to alleviate the poverty
of the native people of the indigenous
people
why they did not redistribute ownership
of land of properties
of apartments of condominiums
of office buildings within the downtown
core
of the biggest cities why is it
that the government's strategy has been
to grant land ownership
to the most obscure most remote
most poorly connected most worthless
pieces of land in the country
now if you think through a few stages of
analysis here
you can imagine how everything would
have changed for the indigenous people
very rapidly within say the 20th century
if the strategy had been the opposite or
even if you had
a combined strategy with both both
features
so let's say the indigenous people of
the northern
united states of america were given this
relatively worthless and remote land
but then also were given
floors of different apartment buildings
different condominium buildings in major
centers of commerce and industry
if they were given homes near
factories in detroit back when detroit's
economy was booming in the middle of the
20th century
what if uh back when there was the
industrial boom
in uh oakland california and this sort
of thing
what if native people had also
indigenous people
also been brought in and involved in
that period of
prosperity by being given houses and
apartments
right there and even now you could ask
well there were new condominium towers
being built in
big cities like vancouver and toronto
what if these remote tribal peoples
not as a substitute for the land they
already own but as a
as a supplement as not what if they were
also being given
apartments and condominiums in these new
towers being built in a city like
toronto and vancouver now not everyone
will want to move from those remote
rural locations
to the downtown center of a of a major
city not everyone will want to move near
the factories to have access to
employment
to have access to education to have
access to opportunity
right to have access to health care all
the benefits
being not everyone will but even if some
of those indigenous people
choose to keep living on the land maybe
they want to be farmers or they want to
be hunters they want to continue that
traditional lifestyle
suddenly they have a source of income
like today
you can rent out the property through a
website like airbnb
you can just rent rent as a conventional
landlord
have someone paying rent to you as a
landlord then you can take that money
and invest it in
your business or your life even if
you're just a hunter or a farmer
that's revenue that could then go back
to that life you have a remote
uh piece of land way out there right
it's gonna involve you
positively in the prosperity of the big
city in a way that these other forms of
redistribution never can and never will
now so let me just
ask you why did the government in canada
or australia never do this
my answer is because it would work
because they knew
it would work i think it's really quite
intentional the extent to which
our indigenous people were forcibly
excluded
from the economy of
manufacturing mining everything worth
having everything worth
being a part of in the 20th century and
i'm saying the 20th century
intentionally and once you get back to
the 19th century the 18th century
you're in the much more overtly
genocidal period now brief aside this is
not going too far off the beaten track
this video
all my life i heard these kind of false
allegations
against the government of japan that
they had committed genocide
in much the same way or worse against
the indigenous people of the far
north of japan all right so the ainu
are the only group anyone knows the name
of in english but the anu are not the
only indigenous group up there there are
several different ethnic groups
different languages different but
suffice to say there are indigenous
people there
who are not japanese and i was shocked
when i did the research and this is not
the whole history of the whole of japan
these are these people in north japan
that what the japanese government in
fact did
for example when they relocated the
indigenous people who have been kicked
out of sackland
so sackland's the far far north of japan
sacklin and the other islands
nearby when those people had to be
settled on the japanese mainland
so to speak there is no mainland they're
just bigger and smaller islands
when they had to be resettled what they
did was
take row houses good old 20th century
row houses
near industrial estates near booming
thriving industries like
just like detroit had its period of
expanding heavy industry
japan also at a period of expansion
there was employment for anyone
even if you were completely illiterate
you could have good employment in the
factories at that time and
many of these people were illiterate
they gave them homes
adjacent to booming factories and
rapidly growing
cities and those homes became valuable
and the jobs those people were able to
get
involved them in the economy positively
and they didn't lead
a ghettoized life the way our indigenous
people did
they became a positive productive part
of japanese society they
shared in you know sort of the shall we
say the boom
of of 20th century industrialization in
japan in a way that our native people
in canada the united
people they would have st first been
illiterate and at a low level of
education
when they were brought in to work in the
factories obviously there would have
been pressure on them
within a generation or two to compete in
terms of their level of education
and participate in you know learning the
the language of japanese society and
everything else
and again that's very different from the
kind of
uh segregation and isolation the
indigenous people of
of canada the united states struggled
against on the one hand they were forced
to assimilate
through religious education and the
united states
unlike canada there was also a big
significant military
organization very few people know about
that history basically the military
setting up assimilation as training
camps by the way this this whole history
is closely parallel also what the soviet
union did
to their native people out in uh siberia
people like the cats
out in eastern siberia another story but
sadly when you do the research very much
the same story
forced assimilation isolation exclusion
from all the advantages
in the year 2020 people are once again
asking about redistribution of wealth
on a massive scale and that question is
important
and it's also really important for us to
understand
the ways in which the posing of the
question
almost inevitably leads to the wrong
answers okay
you may have heard me say some
sympathetic things about the concept of
redistribution of wealth but i'm also
its harshest critic
i wasn't born yesterday i'm going to
talk you through this
real quickly land
is just one form of wealth
if you believe that the purpose of
redistributing wealth
is to achieve equality talking through
this example quickly will let you see
that no
redistribution of land is a great
example where
redistribution of wealth if it's defined
in this way if this is how we conceive
of it
will actually just produce a new
aristocracy
and unbelievable inequality inequality
worse
than what we have now now why why would
we sympathize with redistribution of
land
because i i sympathize i just see the
problems with it i see the shortcomings
okay
south korea was conquered by japan
at the end of world war ii pretty much
everyone who had money
and who owned land they were people who
had worked with the japanese regime or
they were some kind of
hated and resented japanese imperial
overlord so
when they had their liberty they became
an independent nation state they had a
situation of intolerable
unjustifiable inequality where it's like
well there were the japanese people
and the pro-japanese people and then
there were the korean people and
south africa at the end of apartheid
right so you have a situation where
everyone who's rich either they were
the hated white people who led this
white supremacist regime or in some
cases they were non-white people but who
worked with
this hated white supremacist regime and
at the end of apartheid south africa had
a
sort of kind of sort of revolution right
so you say okay well this is unjust we
have to redistribute wealth
there is a claim being made in the
united states in the year 2020
that you have a society still that
echoes the fundamental inequality of
having a society built on
slavery and genocide that the people who
have money
the people who have a status almost like
aristocrats in the society
they are the descendants of the slave
owners and people who benefited
from that segregated racially and equal
society and of course
i mean you can you can measure this
although that's not a hundred percent
true
there's plenty of truth to it um how
much of the wealth distribution united
states uh today
you know not you don't have to go as far
back as slavery you can look at the
period of
redlining soft segregation you can look
at
decade by decade the ways in which the
wealth inequality united states of
america today
is the result of past systemic racism
there is some truth to that
and of course there are limits to that
analysis you cannot make the claim that
one hundred percent of wealth inequality
united states of america is for
for these historical reasons um
[Music]
so there is a moral or ethical
argument here in favor of redistribution
that's fundamentally built on the
perception of the evils of the society
you currently have now again
south africa at the end of apartheid
more extreme south korea
after being liberated from japanese
occupation more extreme very easy
how about the nazi regime at the end of
world war ii once you turn down the
nazis right there are all kinds of
situations like this
where there's a moral imperative there's
an ethical imperative
for redistribution but that can blind
you
to the questions of what redistribution
actually is and how it works
the map of british columbia i'm just
going to ask you to imagine a little
square
cut out of the map of british columbia
and this is such a simple description of
geography this applies to most of planet
earth you'll
see why in just a moment your your
situation in australia
or wherever you live will not be so
different from what i'm going to say
okay so we take this square of the map
and uh we take a ruler and we draw lines
horizontally and vertically we say hey
great we divided the map into a bunch of
perfectly equal squares
now we're going to roll the dice and
we're going to distribute
the land on this map to everyone equally
arbitrarily and at random now if you
have the delusion
this is going to create equality
you're wrong if your delusion is
that the current distribution of land
ownership is so fundamentally evil
like it's the product of the nazi regime
or the japanese conquering your country
or
apartheids if your if your perception is
that the current distribution is so evil
that any redistribution is preferable
that's a different perspective by the
end of this video i think i'm
going to try to convince you that that's
not a reasonable perspective
so this map this square
cut out of the province of british
columbia
some of the land has a view of the ocean
some of the land is adjacent to a major
road and the vast majority of the land
has no view of the ocean it has no road
access
no electricity no sewage no no prospect
of opening a shop
no prospect of opening a gas station no
prospect of employment nothing you can
farm
it's rocky wasteland right and and some
of it even if it could be farmed
would require an enormous investment to
make it
profitable or even break even to to
develop that land
into agricultural land right so what
have you actually done
in redistributing the land equally
the people who were given land with a
view of the ocean
they will be incredibly wealthy their
descendants
will be incredibly wealthy for the next
seven generations
you've created a new aristocracy the
people who happen to be given land right
on the highway let's say there's one
major highway going north south and one
going east-west
for huge parts of canada you're lucky if
there's even that huge parts of this
country
no votes to speak of there's a lot
logging trail you know nothing else
there's lots of i mean again this
relates to the fate of our
indigenous people and these remote and
inaccessible places
they're places that are only accessible
by bush plane and places that are only
accessible in winter
when the road is frozen it's we have a
real problem with transportation this
kind of
okay the people who happen to get land
next to a road they have prospects maybe
not quite as
good as the people with view of the
ocean but they could open a gas station
they could open a shop they could build
a
house or an apartment or something they
could rent it out that building could
have value
right you have actually created
a new and extreme disparity between the
rich and the poor
and some of you might say oh well the
squares on the map
don't have to be the same size uh a
square
with a view of the ocean is worth much
more so we'll make it smaller
uh square with access to the road is
more valuable
so we'll make it smaller and the the
rocky barren
wilderness that has nothing we could
make those are and you roll the dice and
you redistribute the land
and you have the same fundamental
problem
the value of land
the value of a house the value of an
apartment building
or even the value of an office building
right
is only relative to the productive
potential of that piece of land
of that location allow me to say
okay detroit is full of empty and
abandoned houses
even empty and abandoned apartment
buildings
condominium towers empty and abandoned
factories too
these things are related right today if
you give the native people
if you give poor people who are living
in the middle of the desert
an abandoned house in the middle of
detroit what are you really giving them
are you giving them a blessing or a
curse
right the value of that house was
created and sustained
by having access to employment now
on a smaller scale these things are easy
to visualize like you have a town
where all the houses are worth a certain
amount of money in the apartment
buildings the apartments are worth a
certain amount of money
and the economy is all pinned to one
mine
the mine runs out of copper the mine
closes down
suddenly all the buildings are worthless
right and the shops close down in office
suddenly offices are worthless too maybe
a few businesses stay in the office but
a lot of them are empty
a lot of them close down and leave i did
a video about a year ago
about universities closing in the united
states market there are university towns
where the main business is a university
if that university shuts down and
disappears
well all of the apartments and houses
directly and indirectly were linked to
the employment or have providing housing
for students
right so suddenly all of that is
worthless because of that
adjacency because of that opportunity
right
this is relatively easy to visualize
when you're talking about land ownership
we talk about physical buildings
and it's harder to visualize for the
rest of the economy
but the value of most of the things you
can own right it's not something
static and inert it has to do with
productive capacity it has to do with
output right now this is very unlikely
to happen as dramatically as
everything closing down in detroit
everything closing down and when
university closes right
but um the value of owning a piece of
paper
that says you have shares in apple
computer
right that's based on the future
productive output
of apple computer so if there's some
scandal
and everybody stops buying apple
computer
right you know the value of this people
piece of paper goes down or declines if
if there's some new scientific discovery
that makes their computers totally
obsolete and nobody wants to buy them
everything again this is not
actually going to happen but examples
like this have happened
um and look let's let's not digest
things but
what's hard to perceive is the value of
this piece of land or this house here or
now
is it's not it's not something stored up
it's not something latent or inherent in
that land
right it's because the location that
land gives you access to employment
gives you access to opportunity
lets you participate in production lets
you participate in
economic output okay now
most of the arguments against
wealth redistribution are very insincere
most of the people who will point out
the disadvantages of wealth distribution
are doing so
just because they want to suggest to you
that the inequalities we already have
are optimal so you shouldn't question
who's rich who's poor who owns land and
who doesn't
because you couldn't possibly improve on
it that's ridiculous right
now on the other side i've already
suggested if you just assume
the wealth the wealth distribution you
have is completely evil
like this is so terrible that any
redistribution was better
that can also be misleading um
the problem with the right wing and
conservative
critique of wealth redistribution
is that it never really bothers to
explain in a pragmatic way
what will work and what won't with
redistribution
what you need to do is shift from a
mentality
of redistributing static wealth wealth
thought of as something static to a
redistribution of
opportunity okay that is fundamentally
why
giving indigenous people apartments
in apartment buildings in downtown
toronto in downtown vancouver
back when detroit was a booming
industrial town in downtown detroit
getting them access to jobs in
factories in the most densely populated
cities
that's why that would have worked all
right it's not the value of the
apartment
on paper that matters it's not the value
of the condominium
in the condominium tower that matters
it's precisely that they would have
access
to education access to jobs access to
opportunity
and now again depending how far back
we're going in this hypothetical example
it might even be especially important to
emphasize
access to jobs that don't require a high
school diploma
access to jobs that don't require
university education
during the 20th century all these
countries canada
united states australia they were
actively importing
immigrant labor to do job immigrant
laborers who didn't speak english and
who didn't have high school diplomas or
didn't have a high school diploma in
english
to do jobs in factories they were those
opportunities existed
the government was reaching out and
giving them to new immigrants
they were not giving them to our own
indigenous people which would have taken
some work that wouldn't have been
easy to do maybe right but
if you're talking about 100 years ago or
something and these are people who
didn't have access to the same education
as
as white people it would have been
especially something like access to
factory jobs uh in detroit and this kind
of thing where you could have
in a really positive way drawing these
people out of out of poverty
but why somebody who's looking at this
in a static sense
would say oh well that's obvious the
reason why
is that an apartment downtown
is worth more money than a huge plot of
land
in the middle of the the barren
wilderness now
there was a very simplified discussion
of what makes land valuable and not
before
in laos in cambodia and all these places
have had to deal with this issue
if you're redistributing wealth in order
to achieve equality
some land has gold and some doesn't
something land has oil
and some doesn't some land can grow
an orchard effortlessly and some land
would take an
unbelievable level of human labor and
investment
to get an orchard going and then once
you do it's still not as productive of
as
and it doesn't produce as high quality
fruit as the other orchard on the other
land
right like the inequality of the the
soil the inequality of farming
conditions
different it's mind-blowing i remember
in southern laos i read
technical scientific studies on this it
was just mind-blowing oh yeah well over
here
it had to do with um the formation of
the valley
in prehistoric times by a volcano that
was no longer visible it was now a
volcano the remains of which were below
the top soil
because there was a volcano over here
you can grow coffee and
grapes and they turn out great and just
over here it's
the soil is hopeless you know getting
into the technical reasons that okay
the land itself is not equal even in its
productive capacity this way so you talk
about empty land
what's valuable what has it may not be
obvious to the naked eye it may not be
obvious when you're glancing in a map
you can get into you know national uh
geological surveys national
uh agricultural service surveys that are
color coding land and drawing and trying
to make it visible
where the land is valuable and not for
example these these kinds of reasons
but again you're not creating
equality you're creating aristocracy
because somebody gets the land that
grows in amazing
amazing quality grapes that grows coffee
that's really valuable
and somebody gets land that's rocky and
worthless and somebody gets land that
can literally have a gold mine on it
and they become wealthy and their
descendants become wealthy and that's it
right so the arbitrary inequality is
only being reinforced
through this kind of of redistribution
right
what works is not redistribution of
wealth
per se it is redistribution
of opportunity right that is in many
ways
the puzzle we're dealing with in the
21st century
and i would hope i would hope
that all of the stupidity all of the
extremism
all of the anguish of the year 2020
will lead to a renewed investigation
of what redistribution of opportunity
really means
um the united states of america
is a country where people are expected
to go more than
a hundred thousand dollars into debt to
get a university degree
at the end of that process it remains
really debatable
whether or not that university degree is
worth anything whether or not it
actually does
open up any opportunity to you
uh i looked at a study of what
university degrees do
the poorest native americans enroll in
in trying to get out of poverty and it
was
no surprise they follow exactly the same
pattern
as immigrants from the philippines
they're taking courses
in nursing when they don't have the
money to become a
full nurse they get these lower level
credentials and work in an old folks
home taking care of the elderly
and save up their money and then go back
and get more credentials to become a
nurse who can
you know operate an x-ray machine or
whatever you get get these other
nursing credentials that's one of the
most
common you know the steps being taken
for people who are not just born in the
united states of america but whose
ancestors have been born there for
thousands of years
they're still struggling from this
remote position
on the periphery to come into the city
and have access to those opportunities
have access to that
education and if anything they're still
at a disadvantage
relative to new immigrants who've just
arrived from europe or just arrived from
asia or whatever this this is seen
if you go if you walk around los angeles
today you see 40
000 chinese people you see tens of
thousands of chinese japanese filipino
koreans
right who've been able to make those
traditions some of them by becoming
nurses or what have you
right and there's this this terrible
struggle going on
in the on the outer cusp of american
civilization which is where you put
where you sequestered where you isolated
you know
your native people so you know
the complaint that the distribution of
wealth you have now
is fundamentally bad and evil and wrong
is valid
it's valid it's important it's
meaningful
it's real but you can't let that
lead you into a meaningless
and ultimately self-destructive pursuit
of the readers
the redistribution of wealth with the
assumption that
any new distribution you could arrive at
will be better
than the one that you already have if
you
try to reproduce what the free market
already has accomplished in changing the
prices
and the value of land if you try to take
that map it's okay we're not going to
divide them into equal squares
we're going to try to make the size and
the price
reflect what can really be done with the
land step by step what you're trying to
do
is from the position of central planning
and the government reproduce
what only the free market can accomplish
and what you need to learn to appreciate
it's very hard
for left-wing people is that there
is this mysterious quality to the
mechanisms of the free market
because it's judging the value of land
day after day after day again and again
and again
that it has already assigned values to
these land
in a way that no central planner ever
could
and now we have to take a step back and
say okay we've got
almost infinite money collected from
taxpayers
and we've got a mandate to do something
the free market
never could and and that is that we have
to try to provide
opportunity to people who have none
that's something the free market will
never do right the free market
only provides you with an opportunity
when you can afford to pay
when you can pay enough to incentivize
those people are giving you that
opportunity
so the role of government here
is not really to demolish or abolish
what the free market does but to
understand a sophisticated way
those opportunities that the poor and
the disadvantage are cut off from
and undo the fundamental evil
of isolating black people who were
liberated slaves
and making them into sharecroppers right
isolating indigenous people
and putting them on reservations right
the 21st century the challenge we have
is precisely to reach out to those
people
who either conceptually or literally
were out on the periphery of society
and bring them in to share in the
opportunities that are at the center